So, should I just start with the questions?
Yeah, I'll just tell a few words and then the questions. So first of all, I thank Shri Mataji
for giving me this opportunity to talk before my brothers and sisters. And thank you, Caroline,
thank you for inviting me. It's my pleasure to share some beautiful moments with Shri Mataji.
The fact that we came earlier does not, I always felt that, does not mean that we are more,
how do you say, we have progressed more or anything like that. It's only that somehow it
was in our, it was our good fortune that Shri Mataji brought us in Sahaja Yoga earlier.
And I always feel it's like a lift which goes from the ground floor to the seventh floor.
We became on the first floor, the lift comes on the fourth or fifth floor and everybody's at the
same level. It's a collective consciousness. And secondly, we are, when I see some of these
young ones who are so dynamic, so deep, and it gives me a lot of hope for Sahaja Yoga
for the future. And only thing is, if I may say, we saw Sahaja Yoga right from the,
some few droplets, now it's become a big river. I'm sure it will become the sea and then the ocean.
So that's the, that's the advantage you can see. This is for all the Sahaja Yogis,
what I'm seeing, and these experiences I have just selected, which are more collective.
Whatever Shri Mataji has told us, very personal things, or you know, very, very personal lives,
which are not very much useful for the collective, I'm not included in this. Same with the photos.
Okay, so we can start the question. So how and when did you get your realization?
It was in 1972, the 14th of April 1972, that I got my realization.
Along with me, actually, my sister also, we were in a place called Jeevanjod. So I'm telling you
these places in case somebody wants to go, when you're going to Mumbai, you can visit these places.
There was a big road called Nepentia, Nepentia road, and there was a cross road, a settlement
cross road. So it is a dead end road, sort of, you cannot go to the other side. So at the end,
there was a sea and on the left hand side, there's a building which you enjoyed, and Shri Mataji was
staying on the second floor. And Sarsipi had a flat there. And Shri Mataji used to invite all of us
about 10 o'clock in the morning and give us realization, we were maybe 30, 40, whatever.
And then we had to go on our feet or on our hands. So when my turn came, it was in the hand,
left hand, and she put oil on my head. She asked me, how do you feel? I said, fine. Then she
asked my name and she liked my name. That was it. It was the beginning of the journey.
Wow. And that's 50 years ago now? Yes.
Wow. So the next question is if you can tell me something about the early days,
and you want me to share the photos straight away or you want to?
Yes please. I will tell you early days, I will tell you along with the photos and each photo
and there is some story behind it. And that's why I've sort of selected.
So you'll have to excuse any mistakes on my part because some of the photos are in a different
medium. So we might, I might have to... This is fine. So these are my parents.
The story behind it is that it was in 1973. These years I remember because we were in school.
So it was the last year in school and my sister, myself, we could not go. And my parents went.
So it is a place called Wasai, which is rather far from Bombay. And you go by suburban train
on the Western line. And my father said, how can Sri Mataji come in the second class or third class
at that time? And he took first class tickets, but Sri Mataji came with all the Sahaja Yogis
in the third class with all the Sahaja Yogis. And they went to this place called Wasai
and the photo was taken there. So Sri Mataji went to UK. She sort of moved to UK in December 73.
And each time when she used to come and while going back, it was always very emotional moment.
She used to have all the women, but not all of them. And then she used to go. So this is one
of the photos. It was in Santa Cruz airport. There was only the Santa Cruz international airport.
So this is the photo. And whenever we used to meet, Sri Mataji used to sit, eat with us.
So you see Sri Mataji sitting and eating with us on the side also. There are
there are these Yogis sitting. She used to sit on the ground and eat with us.
Okay. I have to stop sharing for a second because I need to
find the next photograph I think is in words. So I need to find that.
Here we are.
Yeah. So this is my father is holding this mic for Sri Mataji. And there's on the right hand side,
you can see a small tape recorder. The story was that this was the tape recorder which taped all
the talks from right from 1970 to Ringo Gauta realization till about 1780. It was the only one.
We had these spools. You see those spools? Six inch spools, four tracks,
3.5 hours each track. So it's 14 hours each spool. And we used to take that tape recorder everywhere.
And it was the only tape recorder from Bombay everywhere we used to go. We used to take that.
And all those old talks are coming from this. And in the story is that my father when he
saw first time he got his realization in January 73, 72, 72 January, he took us in April 72.
So when he heard you talking, he felt it was so deep and so powerful. And he said, really,
somebody should tape it. And a few days later, his friend said, I want to sell one tape recorder,
would like to take it. And we bought it. And even once it was not working,
Shri Mataji had put kumkum on that. And the story was that 83 or 84, I think it was 84,
Shri Mataji sent a word with somebody saying that this man who's going to come, you give all the
spools to him. We had 36 spools because all those, you know, all those music, everything was in that
those spools. And Shri Mataji said, give these 36 spools to him. And I think so they went to the UK.
So this is the story of this tape recorder.
And I think there's another photograph in the same...
Yes, you can show. Now, this is the photo was taken in January or February,
1977. It was in Bodhi. And you can see some yogis which whom you can recognize that's Pat
right in the middle at the end. Then there is Maureen on the right on his left, there is
Givin in front of him, this Jane, I don't know if you know them. And on his left is Maureen.
And there were some rollbys on the left of Shri Mataji. I was sitting behind on the right.
Then there is Chavan uncle in the front on the left. And the mala uncle also there.
So this was in Bodhi.
Okay, so now we go back to the other...
Yes.
So, this is in Bodhi before Ganapati Pulay. Ganapati Pulay started in December 85,
from 72-73 till 85 February. We used to go to Bodhi for the seminar. And I got married in
February 85 in Bodhi. That was the last Bodhi seminar. And these were the small group and
maybe 15-20 more. And this is this place called...
His name was Diwanji. His bungalow used to hire.
Ninakshi can sit in the front. You can see her.
Yeah, so this is the same photo which we saw just now in Bodhi. Should be in
77 January or February. Same photo, but it's not that clear.
Yeah, so this is the photo till... I don't know the year. Should be from 70 or 374 till
about 76. This was sort of the whole group.
Shrimathaji is in the middle. She is looking downwards.
We used to have pujas in Bodhi. This was the puja. We used to put water on Shrimathaji's feet.
My father used to...
Chand Mantras. This was the... We can say first puja in Sahaja Yoga. And this on the left.
This was in the tour, India tour of 1979-80. I think somewhere in
in Bodhi, I think. And before the havan, she used to give instructions and I was writing down
all the instructions. And then she used to put kumkum for people who are sitting for the havan.
And all these photos are basically their presence from Western Sahaja Yogis who gave me
photos. So they are my personal archives. Unfortunately, I'm there in some of them.
So this is... We are preparing havan. The small girl standing on the right hand side of this
is Aradhana, the eldest granddaughter of Shrimathaji. On her right is Anupama,
whom Shrimathaji is putting down kumkum. And yeah, you can just see my head on the right.
And there were some other people.
Yeah, she is putting kumkum to everybody.
This is also a photo where in the front, the two boys on the left in the front,
boy is Sandip Uddakari. Yes, that's Sandip Uddakari. And behind this, his name is Bankeem.
Staying in Borirgi, Navi is I think so in Dubai.
This is the same lot of photos.
Yeah, so this is the place called Nilambar. It was on the 13th floor in the building called
Nilambar, on the Pedda Road in Mumbai. In fact, in 78, I got my BSc and was trying for MSc.
And I did not get very busy. So my father said, you'll be with Shrimathaji since she's here.
And we were here. And here the first Sari marriage took place. And Shrimathaji was staying with us.
She was having a room, then another room for the ladies. Then we were sleeping in the living room.
So this is that photo.
So once Shrimathaji told us to go on the beach, and when she used to come, she used to always
crack jokes, always in a very jovial mood. And she was cracking some jokes.
This is in 83 in Raurie. She had allowed us to take some photos with her.
This is Mr. Dumal. Dumal's uncle, you know. He is sitting with Shrimathaji.
This is a group photo. The extreme right is Sandip's mother.
Then in Aksi, myself, Shrimathaji. Extreme left is Karakankari.
Shrimathaji allowed us to take photos with her.
Now, when I came to France, this photo was given to me as a present by one Mr. Warik Warik's uncle.
And this was the photo which was on the passport of Shrimathaji when she first moved to the UK in
December 73. And there were just three photos, original ones. And he had one of them. He gave me
his own photo and that time he could not make copies or anything. So it was quite a good present
which I digitalized for everybody. This was in 1990 in Mokarma Ashram in Paris.
Shrimathaji was giving Indian names to westerners. The person on the left you will see is
I think Sri Char from Holland. And I was writing them down with the meaning of the names.
In 1978-79 I was with Shrimathaji almost for a year. And this was in 1979 in February,
10th to 16th February. It was a place called Ten Ashoka Road in New Delhi. And we were there
was a pandal and we used to have a public program every evening in this garden. So here were all
these other men. You must be knowing some of them in this photo. I'm sure everybody's changed a lot
since this photograph was taken. Yeah, yeah, I don't know. On the right you can see who's
thumb. Then sitting on the ankle, second on the right. Then there was this lynch who was the first
person to get married on his right. Then there's a Buddha on the left hand side,
a dog with the mustaches. There is, what's his name? On the left hand side of Gavin,
he expired recently. Uncle Douglas and Don. That's right, that's right. It's Douglas.
On the right in front of Gregor is Tony.
Then there was Don Divine. Don Divine. Don Divine, yes.
The word? Don. Don Divine. Don, Don, Don. Yeah, from Spain.
I don't know whether you knew him or not. I don't know. And then on my left is Mr. Vinubopalan.
He's also one of the old sahaja yogis in Delhi. Then on the right of Srimathji,
sitting on the ground is Mr. Verma. He was always there with Srimathji for shopping and everything.
He was there. And then on the left hand side of Srimathji, on the ground is Mr. Sivamani.
He was always there with Srimathji for shopping and everything. He was there.
Okay. So these were the yoginis with Srimathji. On the left there was Phili Paar. She was a
journalist standing. Then there was Ellen on her left. Sitting on the second from the left is Chaya.
On the extreme right sitting is Marie. On her right is Jane. On her right there was a
Sajjhana. That's really fine. Then
there is a role by standing.
There was her sister on the left and another sister on the left, Ashaya and then Dhruva.
Yeah.
So the photos are finished.
Photos are finished.
And just to tell you how it happened in the early days, sometimes when my father was coming
home late, he used to come at five, but in case he was late, he used to... We know that
he's gone to Srimathji's house. He used to call her, would like to come and meet. So he used to go.
1973 Navaratri Pudra, for example, we had nine days Uja on her terrace of Jeevan Jodh.
And once while answering to one question, she said that even one leaf cannot move in the world
without the orders coming from my Kundalini. She showed like this from her Kundalini.
And she used to massage her head with silvicrin. And in one of the talks in Marathi, she said even
Brahma Vishnu Mahesh cannot touch her head, but Sahaja Yogi, she is allowed to touch her head.
So she had given us... She has given us a lot of
rights. And for example, she came to our house three times, we had done Puja and
a lot of things. In Gikamandi hall in Bharti Deva in Mumbai, 73-74, we used to have public programs,
morning and evening. And after the public program, my free time used to go on her feet,
to do our prayers, all those memories.
So if you can ask me the questions,
Abdu, the photograph behind you has very good vibrations. Where are you at present? Where is that?
I'm at home.
That's your home photograph, amazing vibrations. It's so clear. Very nice.
No, in fact...
When you say home, what country is that?
France.
France? France, yes.
I live in France, yes. I've made that photo as a photo of my wife.
I've taken a picture of that and it stays on my screen.
So if I move...
Yeah, it does not move. It's in the background.
So I'm looking at what you sent me and there's a few things I think that I can do.
So the bandhans for your exams?
Yes, yes. Now, there are a lot of things like, for example,
she had corrected my covering letter for a job and sometimes some of us used to tell her,
she said, please put bandhan, I'm going to give my exam.
She used to put bandhan and also there was an instance of 85 birthday puja.
One of us gave her a ring and she said no. And then this person who was giving the ring,
just closed his eyes and immediately Shrimataji put her finger in the front and he
put the ring in her finger. Then I asked her, asked him, that person,
what did you, when you closed their eyes, what did you say? So that Shrimataji has opened the,
given the finger. So he said, mother, let my desire be so pure that you accept my desire.
And then he said, no, please put this ring from me. And Shrimataji immediately put her
finger in the front. And many of the things like once there was in Bombay, there was,
we used to get milk from Aare Milk colony. So it was the only source of getting milk in Bombay.
And they were on strike and there was not a drop of milk. But somewhere somehow they got some milk
and it was Shrimataji. And it was the first cup of tea. And
she poured half, half of that small cup in a saucer and gave me. I said, no, no, I don't want.
She said, no, no, no, you take, I don't know how, maybe she drank some few drops. So all these small,
lots of small memories.
Did you say about coming to your house three times?
Yes.
And, but the kerosene from abroad, you haven't mentioned.
Yeah, because some, I mean, I had lung infection. And when I called Shrimataji, she said, no, no,
take everything what is necessary for your lung infection. She was in Australia. And she sent
some kerosene. And it was really, really helpful to cure the lung problem. Then she said,
your father was very strict. And that's why you got this lung problem. But now it's much clear
because of this. So just to tell you that even if something bad happens, they certainly certainly
something good is going to happen. So this is just truly I wanted to convey.
Can you tell me something about her availability for her children?
Yeah, in 73, 74, 75, I don't know the years exactly. So in a place called Prabhadevi is one
of these Ganesha. So I'm a Ganesha. Beside there is a gardening in front. There was this
old building that used to have the meditation right in the beginning. And we were just few. And
every year we used to have on the terrace, we used to have a pandal. Shrimataji used to come
for the birthday pooja. And Shrimataji used to come in the morning, used to have pooja, havan,
used to sing songs. And that time we could not take vibrations. So we had to put our hand on her
back, on her head like this. So in the evening, about nine, 10 o'clock, she used to go home.
And once I had this opportunity to go with her to her house because a lot of flowers were there.
And they said, how did you come to bring flowers? And she was staying in Karpal in Kalpana Devi's
house. And when I went, I saw that so many people had come about, I don't know, 30, 40,
Sursipi's colleagues, her family, friends, everybody to wish Shrimataji and Shrimataji
was with us for the whole day. So I really felt that how much time she had given to us,
especially from Bombay. There's a lot of things. Can I ask a question, Avadhut?
You mentioned Shrimataji sent some kerosene. I believe we call it Vaseline. Am I correct?
No. You put it for the aeroplanes, that kerosene. It's liquid, it's a fuel.
Really? So, but that's like a petrol then? Yes. For burning, for cooking, for heating?
Yes. Mother was giving actual kerosene because in Portugal mother told us Vaseline instead of
kerosene. No, she said you mix it with olive oil because it smells quite strong. So mix it with
that and then put it on your chest. Right. So mixed with oil. Yes.
Because not, not, not, not just that. Because in Portugal, we did not have kerosene in Portugal,
not available. I know in France it's difficult to get.
Yes. Mother told us you could use Vaseline, you know, and basically probably similar to that.
No, because she had it sent from Australia. There was Patrick Lantone was there. So she sent it.
Vaseline was made out of petrol. This is why she suggested the
Vaseline. Vaseline is also a sub-product from petrol in any case. So they are related,
but different. This is slightly different. Thank you for that.
And so now I have, how she cleans her caramels? Yeah, basically I used to smoke even after
realization. I used to smoke two or three cigarettes per year. When with the friends,
I used to go out for a weekend. We used to drink smoke. So I used to smoke also just,
just like to give them company, you know, the friends are the force you and all that.
So once I was in Goa with another friend and I smoked and in one week,
5th of February, 76, there was a pooja. It's in Nagruta. So after the pooja, we used to go on our
feet. And when I went on our feet, Shri Mataji said that although I did smoke, suddenly my heart
really literally stopped. And I didn't say anything. And then again, I used to go with the
friends and again, I used to smoke. And then in 79, when I was in Durya in the Ralbhai's house,
they had a havan and there Shri Mataji said, I want somebody, a man who has never smoked in his
life. And all the Westerners, they said, no, they had smoked, even the Indians, they smoked
PDS. So they said, I pulled my ears and looked down. I said, no, not the second time. I'm not
going to go through the question. And I said, I smoked. I forgot about the incident. And then
Shri Mataji did not. So in the evening, I started having a very strong smell from my
vishuddhi fingers. I don't know both of them, but anyway, they are the right one.
And they were so strong. We were in a small village, the public program, and I came home,
wash my hands properly, but still it did not go away. I was, I was getting worried now
because we are all with Sahaja Yogis and it was rather strong. And so that time I used to go to
Shri Mataji's room. So I said, Shri Mataji, there's a problem. So she said, okay, come here. And she
took my fingers like this in her hands. And in about two, three minutes, she said, okay, now smell
and the smell is gone completely. So she said, because you've accepted this morning that you
smoked, I'm taking out all your smoke, all your cigarette from your body. Your karma means in your
life. If you tell somebody now that I've never smoked in my life, that is true. That's not false.
That part I've taken it out. So now again, you, you promised that I was not smoked. Of course,
I promised them I did not smoke. Then in the West, I had once a brain scan and once even
carotid artery, some doctor or something, two different doctors, they said, yes, the brain is
so clear that you can see that you have never smoked in your life because any smoke, it gives
a stain. I said, yeah, I did not smoke, never smoked in my life. So this is how she in our karmas.
Wow. Wow. And then how does she clean us physically?
Now I always have, I'm very sensitive to sun. So if I go out in the sun, I have a headache.
And when we were in Nilamba, every means is to make us laugh with a lot of things, jokes,
and I was sitting with a very bad headache. So she said, what's happening? I said, really,
I've got a very bad headache. They'll come on. You put your hand on my liver. So I put my hand on
the newer and in about five, 10 minutes, I had to go for diarrhea, diarrhea, vomiting. And really,
literally I was completely vacuumed from inside. I came back, the headache was completely gone.
And also in this, it's called Akshay Trithya in our Indian. It's a very auspicious day during the
year. We used to have a puja in this place, Marve. And the whole day we used to be there with
Shrimataji. And in the evening, once I remember, she told us to stand in a circle. We were,
I don't know, something like 15 or 20. And she worked on us individually like this. You know,
you put all the things in the, and we were standing on the wet sand and she worked on us,
everybody. And she said that wet sand, I remember, she said wet sand is the best element to take
everything what is blocking your body. It can really clean you very well. It's a very good
element. Wet sand, but on the seashore, not if you do. I don't think so. If you do it at home,
it will work. But then also we used to go to Gampati Puli and all. We can do this three
point treatment for the Muladhara. You sit on the ground with your legs, your feet, the heels
in the ground, the knees bent. Your hands, you can put behind. So basically you touch with your
Muladhara, physically. You touch with the heels, which is the Muladhara, and with your hands.
So three point treatment, we can really ask, because Gampati Puli is a very, very,
the best place to clear our Muladhara. So we ask Mother Earth to suck in all these Muladhara
problems. So we can do that also. And it says also, sitting in the sea with her feet towards
the sea. Yeah, because what happened was when we were small, I don't know where it was, but I
still remember these small incidents where she used to sit in the sea with her feet in the sea
like this. And the waves used to come. And we like small children used to go and put our head
against her feet. So when you imagine we were, our nose was in the water.
When the waves are coming and we used to, you know, do some sort of a competition,
who will stay more in the, in the water. So the small little incidents and I did not realize
that she was really vibrating Arabian Sea.
And so you have some instances of how she knows what's going on in our mind?
Yes, I had always this ear problem. And once my ear is too weak and all that,
so you put some drops, these, that, nothing happened. Nothing did not work out. And then
I went to Shri Mataji and said, please, can you just see, there's some problem? And she took her,
my left hand, my left ear with the right hand like this, and she started blowing.
So immediately a thought came in my head. All these medicines did not work, what this
blowing will work. And Shri Mataji immediately left the hand. She said, why are you thinking
like this? You know what I am putting? I am putting the real Pranava in your ear,
obviously, because I doubted it never hit.
It says also here, couplets.
Yeah, and also couplets means we were in Rauri and after the
food used to say couplets, after marriages used to do couplets like that. So in the afternoon,
Shri Mataji, people used to ask Shri Mataji to ask some people to say the couplets. And I
immediately made a couplet. And I was, I was, I was, I was, I was, I was, I was, I was, I was,
Shri Mataji didn't ask, so I did not say. You mean the same program happened? And then Shri
Mataji said, okay, now you say the couplet, a couplet also. So I sent the couplet and she said
immediately, but this couplet you had made in the morning. And I said, yes, yes, yes. And then she
said, how did I know? You know, how did I know? These are the small little incidences. And then
like once we went to Shri Mataji early in the morning and they did not have time to take our
bath. And immediately she was telling the listeners, ah, these people, when they come in the
morning, they always have their bath. My sister was there with me. So even she knows exactly,
but she's so diplomatic and we had to meet Adi Shakti, we had to take our bath. We had not done it.
And Shri Mataji's reply concerning the, the fourth dimension?
Yeah. So in 77, we had been to Jaipur and Jaipur will get very good pearls. They are
very, very rough imitation pearls, but they are very, very good quality. So we had taken some
pearls and then there's a very special sari, bandini sari from Jaipur. So I was a postman and my
father said, now did you take these for Shri Mataji? So I took all of them for Shri Mataji. And Shri
Mataji said, why are you bringing all this? Why are you bringing all this? I tried to be smart. I said,
what you have given us in the fourth dimension, this is just three dimensions.
So immediately she replied, so give me in the fourth dimension.
So this is now how she protects her children?
Yeah. So basically there are two real miracles in my life with Shri Mataji. One of them was my year,
the about my karma, how she took it out. And this is the second one, which I'm going to tell.
We have used to have this public programs. I told you in Gita Mandir all third floor
Chawpatty and every evening to have that. And once for the Tepere Padar, I was sitting in the front
and Shri Mataji just looked somewhere. And in Marathi you call it Kataksha. Kataksha means
stern glance. And we say, Devi gives that Kataksha, Kataksha, Kataksha means she just
looks at something and she knows what it is. So slowly I saw whom did she give this Kataksha?
And I saw a man with beard, like a salu and long hair and all that. He was there.
I was quite curious and wanted to know what, why did he come? And when I went to ask him if he
wants his realization, he said, no, he just told me like this, leave me alone, sort of.
So I said, okay. And then Shri Mataji, she got up and was to go. He came from the opposite direction
towards Shri Mataji. We are ready to intervene in case he does something to Shri Mataji. But when he
came in front of Shri Mataji, he fell down like a coconut tree on her feet. And before he could
fall down, Shri Mataji just touched his Arna chakra. I don't know with her Arna chakra or
with her thumb. And he gave a big sigh of relief like this and he went. And Shri Mataji also,
she went. And then we asked, who was this man? What happened exactly? She said that these are
these Hatha Yogis who are coming from the Jandals, from Himalayas. And we know all of us,
only Adi Chakti can give realization, nobody else. Only she or her powers, even Sahaja Yogis,
because she has given us the power. Now she said that she, he came here to get his realization
and they know me much better than you know me. And they, when I put my hand on his Arna chakra,
he got his realization. But these people, when their Kundalini gets stuck up in Arna chakra,
it pains like a thousand bees taking, sinking at the same time. It pains very, very painful.
And when I put my finger, his Kundalini rose up and the pain was gone. So he felt relieved
and he went. And then she said that you Sahaja Yogis, you feel sometimes just some pressure,
some tingling, some, how do you say, the burning sensation, because my protection of my Amrela
is always there on your head. She said that. And that's why you don't feel that much.
How she fulfills our desires.
Yeah, just like you were in Raurie, I was young and you were to eat and it was a sort of old table
and I was doing many things and I was the last to come. And there was, everybody had sat on the
left hand side only, there was one chair left. So we were sitting to eat and they used to give
chapatis and I like chapatis very much. And they used to give chapatis, everybody knows what chapati
is. So they used to give chapati with butter to Shri Mataji and for us without butter. And I like
with butter. So they brought four very hot chapatis to Shri Mataji and she just took out one chapati
and put it in my plate. I said, no, Shri Mataji said, I know you like them. And I said, okay,
I did not really desire it, but when she puts it, you just eat. And the second thing happened in
Solapur, we were there and we were, it was a small room. We were about 10, 15 people. And after going
out from the room, it was about 10, 30, Shri Mataji said, okay, we will go to bed now.
While going out, I just had the thought because the vibrations were so much in this room. I said,
the person who is going to sleep in this room is such a lucky person.
I knew somebody sleeping, but I didn't know who. And then we were in another room, we were about
to go to bed and that person came, Dhumal uncle was going to sleep there. And he came to us and
he said, do you have enough space? If you don't have, you can come to our room.
And I really jumped, literally jumped and went to sleep in their room. So it was a rectangle room.
And on the two sides, Shri Mataji and Uncle Dhumal was sleeping on the bed,
parallel at the edge. And I was sitting in the middle, sleeping in the middle on the ground.
And there was a toilet between me and Dhumal uncle. So if Shri Mataji had to go to the toilet,
he had to go above me because the room was not big. And when I came to the room,
it was all dark and Shri Mataji had already slept. And suddenly, I don't know what time,
I thought that somebody has touched me and stumbled over me, something like that. And I
just got up and I saw that it ran in Shri Mataji's room. And I just got up, the sleep went off.
And Dhumal uncle said Shri Mataji was vomiting the whole night because she was cleaning Solapur.
And when she came back, she sat and that time she used to massage her feet very often.
So we took massage. And I told Shri Mataji of my thought the night before saying that
such good vibrations and the person who is sleeping is so lucky. She said, yes,
because of this thought, I brought you here to sleep here. She said that.
And there was also about a sweater in Julia, my mother had lost her sweater.
And we had to go to Delhi, this famous Delhi place. And my mother said,
you buy a sweater from Delhi for me. So this one month ago, I had shown you,
used to go with Shri Mataji for the shopping. And I told him, can you buy one sweater for my mother?
He said, okay. So when he came back in the evening, he said, ah, mother liked you very much.
What is he talking about? I told my mother and he taught our mother Shri Mataji.
So he bought a sweater for Shri Mataji. And it was a very Kashmiri, just one piece left and all that.
And he said, no, no, no, Aurojit has told me to buy a sweater for you. And so she had to take it.
And basically what had happened was when I was in Delhi, I was a student and others, they used to
give presents to Shri Mataji, like purse and this and that. I said, ah, I don't even know how to
buy a handkerchief. And I was a student. And I said, really? And I said, I don't know how I can
give anything to Shri Mataji. And suddenly, you know, your desire, Shri Mataji took it over.
It was a lovely sweater, Kashmir sweater. They say you can put it through a ring,
you know, that light, but very strong. Yeah. So it was just a desire which Shri Mataji put here.
And this also here Mumbai. Is that a different story or is that?
Yeah, this sweater. No, that's, that's it.
And then instances of how she knows without telling her.
Yeah. Because what happened was when I was with Shri Mataji in Nilambar,
I was taking care of all the money part of it as far as the shopping for the day to day activities
was concerned. Like we had a cook and I used to go with him to buy, I mean, flowers or vegetables,
rice, things that newspaper for Shri Mataji every day. And what happened was Shri Mataji,
we had some foreigners, Western people with us, and Shri Mataji was telling me to take them to
different places like elephant tuckers, marlin, madalangs, take to the cinema, you know, in Bombay
to entertain them. And it was rather hot and they used to feel thirsty. And we used to go and have
some limca and one or two of them, they never had the habit of paying. So, and my restaurant fellow
used to ask me and I used to pay for them always. And my father said, I need to
take money from them because they are like gods, the guests are like gods.
So, okay, but I mean, quite a lot of money because for me it was quite a lot, you see,
but every time I used to go, I used to pay. Okay, we pay. And then the next year,
1979, all the Westerners when they came, they did not give me any work. And I was quite,
because when the Westerners come to Bombay, everybody has got a particular job to do.
Somebody will welcome them and they'll pour some flowers, that and then I heard that the
leader that time had passed a few rumors that when he was in Nillambar, he stole sahaja yoga
money. He made some, you know, he took some sahaja yoga money in his pocket. Like laughing,
it was just the opposite. So then what happened? We were in Buri Vili and there was a public
program and Shrimataji said, all these foreigners, you take them to this place. Which you saw that
photo Shrimataji came to this island, which we saw just now this place. And she said,
then she said to me, don't spend money on them. And she told everybody, Avdut has spent a lot of
money for you people. Don't allow him to spend money on you. So literally she gave me a clean
sheet without me telling anything. So that is, that is because the money stolen is also another
thing is when in 82 Mahakali pooja, my father was taking care of all the organization and that time
he used to have cash. So he told me, Avdut, why don't you just go and count it, how much we have?
So I was counting and there was nobody in the room, but then I counted and kept. And after the
pooja then he came back, the money is gone. All the money is gone. And we were all sahaja yogis
there. And suddenly we said, okay, we'll go and take Shrimataji who is in another bungalow.
And we went there and Shrimataji was sleeping. And we just prayed to her in front of our door.
We did not disturb her. And when we came back, everybody was asking what happened. We said,
we have told Shrimataji, she said, don't worry, I will take care of you.
And next day we slept and each morning the money came back. In fact, the sahaja yogi, he had a,
in fact, it seems that he saw me doing that. He knew where the money was and he had a very,
I would say, weak moment. And he said, he took the money and then he felt repentant and he knew
that back the money. But in another village, Shrimataji told something about this very
indirectly to him. And just we, two or three people could understand that really Shrimataji
knew what she was saying. And she knew that he had taken the money.
Wow. Small instances of her love for her children?
So I told you about the tea when she gave me a little bit of tea. And secondly, when
once I was in the, lived in this satnam apartments, it was, I don't know which floor.
I used to always go for taking the tapes, the big tapes, and used to put it on the small
cassettes. And I used to take it to her so that Shrimataji will take it to the UK to listen,
being saying jyoti and things like that. And once when we went, I was there and I met Shrimataji
in the lift and I don't know if she put her hand on my head or anyway, she told me, touch her head.
And I touched and she said, Oh, is it hot? I said, yeah, very hot. So she told me from where
I was coming. And then she said, you should always cover your head in the sun. You should not never
go out without covering your head. And I had come about 20, 25, 30 minutes walking the sun.
So also when once I wanted to go and I joined a judo. So I was with Shrimataji. I said,
I want to go. She said, where do you want to go? I said, I'm doing judo. I said, judo, no, no,
judo you should never do. So you never do judo. I said, but I bought this, you know, this special
risk, you know, whatever you call them. So she said, no, no, no. Her special phrase was throw
them in the sea. Samudra se kundi. So I said, I can throw everything I can throw and I will
stop being judo. And so she was sometimes quite stern with us, but you could really
realize her love for us. Yeah. She gave us warnings directly, indirectly, so many things
that can make another decision. So this carries on to then to how she corrects her children.
Yes. So we there was Warren Newman has been knowing he had started Australia. First year
when he came he did not get along with anybody. And I mean, not many people. And Shrimataji told
me to sit with him in the car to give him mantras, this and that. And I still remember in the
villages to talk and we still have to write for him all the mantras and everything. He went and
came back with 35, 40 Sahaja Yogis Australians, which we had never seen before like that.
So many people coming and he had a sort of a liking for us, our family. And when he came back,
he brought a flash at that time, the flash was separate from the camera cassettes and the
our tape recorder needed a head, the head used to get erased because of the taping and that head we
did not get either in Bombay or in India. And so we told him to bring and he brought. So I told
Shrimataji that he did not want to take any money for that. So I told Shrimataji just ask him to
take money. And she was very, very angry with me. And that time she took my ear in her hand,
she pulled my ear and said, how do you do you are you doing my business?
So you guys not for business, throw them everything in the sea. That time, you know,
that time is to I put my ears is to not answer back, but argue. I said we can throw everything,
but the head we don't get in India. So okay, head you can keep, but the rest of the things you give
them back to not make any money out of Sahaja Yoga. And it was a big lesson for me.
So how she taught not to pay attention to one Yogi?
Yes. What happened was there was one Mr. Diwali who is to sort of cure people and all that
and Shrimataji told him not to do that. And she wrote a very beautiful small letter and he took
so bad and he went out of Sahaja Yoga. That was in May. Then in August, I had to do my
postgraduate studies in Nagpur. She had come the earlier day and she told me that
you come next day, take a cap record of what her family. I went rather early because I was staying
quite far and I had a train at 30. So we had to sort of wake her up once or even twice. And that
time she brought up and looked very, very disturbed. And she said that, I said, Shrimataji,
I'm really very sorry to have broken you up. So she said, no, no, you did not disturb me. But
when these people like Diwali go out of Sahaja Yoga, there is a vortex there and people who
are close to him, they get caught up in that vortex and they also go down. For me, it was a
big lesson. However, the Sahaja Yogis, big, small, should not have too much attachments because
we should not be our own gurus. And then she said that he was a very ardent disciple of Shirdi
Sai Baba. And she gave me an example. Now Shirdi Sai Baba is not there, I am there. So if you are,
before there's an inspector and then the inspector becomes a commissioner, you should go to the
commissioner, not to the inspector. And she said, Shirdi Sai Baba is not happy with him and he has
to take him down. So this is something which I wanted to share with you. Wow. We've seen other
instances of that. Yeah. And in 1976, Shri Mataji tells it very, very clearly how to meditate in
Mumbai. And she, it's in Hindi, but translation is available in Amruta. And she tells about this,
that, yeah, those people who have gone out of Sahaja Yoga should not have any relations with them.
And so, yes, examples of what happens when we have attachments for ex-Yogis.
So there was a Sahaja Yogi, was Mr. Bhatt and he used to smoke a cigarette chain smoker. Immediately
he stopped smoking and then he was quite good. Then there was Mr. Kamath to whom he had come,
to Sahaja Yoga. He was Kamath for some reason, he was put out of Sahaja Yoga.
So once Mr. Bhatt wanted to go and just visit him, and he came out, he started smoking. Again,
he became a chain smoker. And Shri Mataji worked on him two or three years. And then,
and then really, I remember in this Nilambar, one and a half hour, she worked on him.
And when she used to work, she used to put Sudarshan chakra on his Vishuddhi.
And she used to say, Aham, Aham Sakshat, Shri Krishna, Aham Sakshat, Shri Krishna. And of course,
he was, he was cured. And then I asked this Mr. Bhatt, what happened? He said,
in the beginning, it was quite good, but later on he had such, such a strong sort of possession,
I don't know, whatever, on his Vishuddhi, which wanted him to smoke. He said, just what happens?
He just made one visit to this ex-Yogi, he was put out of Sahaja Yoga. This is what I wanted to share.
How did the deities work for Shri Mataji?
Yeah, there was one Mr. Angar, who was a civil engineer in the US. And he was
rippled well in his life. And he got his realization. When he came to Bombay,
he gave his cards to everybody, his telephone number, everything. When that was written,
to give realization, one dollar, to give vibrations, two dollars, something like that.
And Shri Mataji wanted him to come to Delhi. And we were in Kalpana Devi's place,
and it was fourth floor. And they were talking and suddenly he said to Shri Mataji,
it's so difficult to contact you. And he said, it's easier to contact the Prime Minister,
Indira Gandhi, than to contact you. Easier to contact her. And we were all rather angry with
him. And this Murya Kalda was there, the leader at that time, he just got up, he's six feet tall,
he just got up and he said, one more word, Mr. Angar, and I'll throw you out of the window.
He really, with such a threatening, then this anger got up and he said, bye bye, Shri Mataji,
and he went away. He said, bye bye, madam, to Shri Mataji, he went away. Then he went to the
jungles and he found a real guru somewhere in Calicut, in Coorinsa somewhere. And this guru
said, do you know whom you've insulted? You've insulted Adi Shakti. Now you go and ask for her
funniness. And he had long hair, in his repentance he made a bald head, he cut all his hair and he
came to ask for forgiveness to Shri Mataji on the airport. First time he came, the taxis were on
strike, so he could not come on time, Shri Mataji went. Second time, Shri Mataji went just five
minutes early and he came. And then Shri Mataji said, because he has insulted me, Yogis, the
Nomanas will see that he will never come in front of me. He will never come in front of me.
But on the other hand, when she wants to meet someone, how the deities work?
Yeah, so it happened in Greece, the first things in 1999, where Divali Puja and
I danced in front of Shri Mataji. I cannot dance, but really I wanted to dance. We had some folklore,
local dance. Anyway, so there was a toilet. Shri Mataji went to the toilet and everyone used to put
their shawls. So I said, do I put? I should not put. And in the meantime, everybody put their shawl
and Shri Mataji is in the toilet. And I put my shawl, the last one was in front of the toilet.
So when Shri Mataji comes, my shawl was the first one. Then the person was tending to Shri Mataji.
She was right in front of me and she said, Ah, Shri Mataji wants to see you tomorrow morning.
I said, okay. I said, if I would not have put the shawl, I would never come here and it's not
possible to give me this message that Shri Mataji wanted to see me. And she said, no,
when Shri Mataji wants to see anybody, it somehow happens. You don't have to do anything and it
happens. Let go and see. And this was the first incident in Kabela also, Shri Mataji was there and
my voice was there for some days. And once at night, Shri Mataji said, call Abduk and
somehow they could not contact me. So then weekend afterwards when I went there,
I said, I'm here. But when Shri Mataji calls again, you can come. And we had gone out and
when I came back, it was very dark and I was coming up to open the big door from inside
because there was an aged lady with me. So there's a big staircase in front of the kitchen of Shri
Mataji, you remember. So when you come up, you can open the door from inside. When I came up,
I saw on the right hand side in the living room of Shri Mataji, Shri Mataji was sitting
along with her CP and listening to Bim Senjoshi's music. So I just saw, I did not see, I mean,
I did not know if she was there. And I saw and I just did namaskar like this. And when she saw,
she said, come, you're coming. And I went and she told, yes, my wife's massage and all that.
And then suddenly, you know, it was June 2003, it was so-called sickness of Shri Mataji. So
I suddenly said, Mother, please let me go to Marathi. And she said, Oh, I am well.
I said, then it's alright for me. Then she said a word in the kitchen. She said, tell yogis not to
worry about my health. I'm working on something. So this is something lesson which I learned that
whatever happens, as I told you, you know, all these stories about Shri Mataji, who was there,
who was not there, everything is planned, every single thing is planned. I learned from that.
Because if a small country, some president is going to another country, his bodyguards,
spies, everybody go there to, to, to, you know, do the preparation work. So if Adi Shakti is coming
on the ground, on the earth, everything is taken care of. Okay. So you should not feel that way.
And Shri Mataji has talked about it in 88th, I think, so Sastrara Devoja. So I mean,
this is something which I learned. And the Greece incident?
Yeah, Greece was this incident about Shaul.
And how she's in, how she's present in the collective?
We were in Raurie and we were four of us when Suryogi was taking care of our organisation
with Raul Bhai, Srimataji and myself. And Srimataji, and there were some Suryogis from abroad,
about 40, 50, staying about, I don't know, something like 30 kilometres. And Srimataji
told this person, bring them here, bring them here. And three, four times he, she told,
and he did not sort of budge. And they did not come. And the next day, we learned that
they were expecting Srimataji to come there. And they were thinking that they will be a puja of
Srimataji. That time there were no mobiles. So then they did not come. They did a Nirakara puja.
And so I feel that Srimataji was physically with us, but spiritually she was with them.
So she's always with the collective, even if physically we are there.
It's not, it's not, she's always in the collective.
How her chakras worked during a public programme?
So in Raurie, in Bombay, when we had these public programmes,
once she told how to just come and put your hand on my Adnya back, there was a public programme.
When I put my hand, it was so much, it was moving like a generator. And at times I was so difficult
to put my hand because it was throwing it outside. I could feel her back Adnya working so strongly.
And she wanted, because that time we were not taking vibrations more so.
So I had to put the hand just to tell you that this is how Srimataji works during all
public programmes, all her chakras work, everything is inside a lot of things going on.
An instance of how powerful her attention is?
We were in this place in Delhi and she had a ear pain and it was quite painful.
And Srimataji was literally suffering in pain and Raul Bhaikal does, me and another yogi
in the afternoon, that time used to put fingers in the ears, oil and everything.
And still it was not working out and I was rather worried. And it's six-thirty of years to have a
public programme and six-twenty-five somebody said, there's a lot of people coming, they've
gathered, the public programme is there. And Srimataji, in five minutes she just dressed up
and she came out. From six-thirty to eleven, eleven-thirty she gave the talk, everything,
and not a single sign of pain. And I was really surprised. I said whether the pain went away,
which I doubt, it was rather quite heavy, or it was not pain in me. So after a year or two I had
the opportunity to ask Srimataji. And Srimati said, I remember that pain, it was there, but
when I put my attention on Sahaja Yogi's, when I don't put my attention on the pain, the pain does
not exist for me. So when her attention is not there on somewhere, that thing doesn't,
is not, the same thing as the umbrella business will be sadhu, she told.
And first class, your first class?
It was the same thing that I was trying for my first class and I just missed some marks,
and that I used to write to Srimataji in the AUG state Surya address, a lot of letters. So I wrote
to her that I just missed my first class and she just put her attention on what happened and here
somehow to make the story short I got my first class. Just she put attention, when she came here
she said, she told us that when I got your letter I just put my attention and after some days
how she got the letter that I got my first class. And she told to tell the story in a lot of villages,
to the villagers how it happens. So she did it for you but she also did it for the whole
world in a way. Yeah, yeah, but to tell the experiences. Yes, exactly. To the new people,
how you can help and you know. So importance of putting letters on her feet?
It was in 1987 in Paris, at that time she had put out a letter from Bombay and she said that
he was using foul language, bad words. And she told, she said, she told my father,
why didn't you tell me that he was using bad language? And he said,
yes I used to tell you Srimataji but I used to write it and put it on your feet and Srimataji
told me all this just to insist that when we have any problem really
we can put on Srimataji's feet. She will take her time to take to solve it, not insist on that it
should be solved immediately. But whatever really we feel that like for example divisions in
Sahaja Yoga, this and that. So just put on Srimataji's feet and just forget about it.
And later on just to tell you that I used to put letters on her feet and then
bury them or put in the reverse and be like that. And once I forgot and four years later I
got that letter because I lost that letter. The letter I had asked Srimataji, I said,
the letter I had asked Srimataji that I should feel the joy in my meditation
and I should not feel angry. I was feeling very angry. I used to get angry very fast
and these two wounds she had given me in these four years. So from that time I really,
you know, I do that. So can I just ask, so what do you do with the letters after you take? No,
I put it in the river or you can put it in a burry or yeah so do like that.
So and how Srimachi saw many things in advance? Like for example Sahaja marriage started in 78
which I told you and even before that three four years she was talking about Sahaja marriages
between Sir Yogi. She said she will get them married and Ganapati Puli also started in December
85 but before that three four years Srimataji was talking about Ganapati Puli. Now just to tell you
that how she sees things in the future like in Diwali Puja 2003 it's not a very big talk. It's a
small talk of five ten minutes. Srimati said Sahaja Yogi should not worry about their
small little problems. Their destiny will work it out and then she said that when it will come
you'll remember that I've said it. I'm saying it now but your destiny will work out. So all these
like jobs is that all this is not your job. Your destiny will work it out and
many many things come in my head what Srimati said. One of the things in Diwali Puja 85 Srimati said
nobody can destroy Sahaja Yoga from outside only from inside. Now this is something happening
especially here. So all those things Srimatiji gives us in Mahalakshmi Puja 86 in Belgium she told
that all the money from the West will go and the third world countries will get
the money. Now you will see that China, India they are having much more money than the West.
All the small things Srimati just told which you did not tell your family. Yes yes.
And how she helped your worldly mother to pass away smoothly?
Yeah so it was a very again a very strong experience for me because
my sister got married in 83 and she was with Srimati in her car and all that and
myself and my father we were on two buses with the foreigners and my my mother Srimati said we
keep her at home don't take her with you because she has got some problems. In 83 and 84 January
suddenly we got a message from from the tour at night and she said Srimati you want Mr and Mrs
5 to come next day to the or you should join the tour immediately. So both of them they went and
my Srimati told my mother you be on the tour but never come physically in front of me. Don't
show me your discount. Don't come in front of me. Okay everything fine. And then in February we had
these marriages and we had Srimati Puja in Birli and everybody was putting the halbi on Srimati's
feet and my mother also came because she wanted to put and Srimati was very very angry on her
and my mother felt so bad she I mean she was really feeling very bad and I said you see
last year she said not to go on the tour this year she said go on the tour there is some reason you
don't know I don't know. And then in March 21st March about the puja I went and asked Srimati
whether the parents can go to England because my sister was carrying a baby and whether they can go
and my mother Srimati said immediately no because your mother is sick my mother was not sick and
then again used to ask question like okay then if my father can go alone and then Srimati said
okay let her food soak my mother let her food soak because at the moment she's not food soaking and
that was true she was very regular in food soaking but 15-20 days she had not food soaked
said she would like to see her granddaughter and let her go and then on the 6th of April the first
time my mother could not sleep the whole night and she was breathing like anything we didn't know
what was happening we broke down our days there doctor whatever everything happened and on the
14th whatever it's Monday we the doctor said we should take her to the hospital to take her
heart x-ray and the x-ray showed that she had some problem the ventricles and something like that
and he gave the right medicine and really in the evening she after about one and a half months
she first time she ate something she lost a lot of but at night she came in her dream and she
might as you told her she came as a lakshmi and she might have told her that you put everything
on my lotus feet don't worry about your family your husband your children nothing just put
everything at my lotus feet my mother was so happy that she came
like that and she told us next day and we thought okay in two three years she'll go back come back
home Tuesday night again she came and she said you do you remember what I told last night said yes
I remember so she again and then the next day night my mother expired because the morning and
then she sent us a beautiful letter to my father saying that she tried to warn us she tried to work
on her so that everything goes on well and
she helped to go past him peacefully because basically when the person dies early in the life
they they have that desire behind she prepared her to prepare her for her last surgery
sorry I was a bit bored because I could literally see that because you're in the
hospital trying to contact she said because you could not contact me I couldn't know that
nothing can be done and God's will has to be restored in the letter she had written
I still have that so and when your father passed away no my father passed away in may 80
uh may 94 and um he had uh in February 94 uh he had um made his bill and in the building he wrote
that everything to be given to sajibah he had lots of cassettes photo books everything and we had a
flat in Mumbai the Urmila flat and uh he said anything other things can be you know given to
somebody else but this flat has to be given to sajibah and he had made an executor of the bill
and what happened was uh I took this will to shrimataji in kavila in adishakti and eco
and shrimataji was uh reading this will and I could literally see the ears coming out of eyes
I can see see them she was crying and she said he has given everything for sajibah and she said
your father was very astute as far as money was concerned because by profession he was an engineer
but uh after his retirement he dedicated fully when I came here um fully for sajibah and used
to take the accounts uh of sajibah and he was sort of a right-hand man of baba mama was a chartered
accountant so and she said shrimataji said you would not give even a single penny to anybody if
it does not have the bills see so and she said that uh so many people they made uh
money out of sajibah very few people they not only kept the money but raised them and she said your
father was or nothing it was a very big certificate for for us and she said uh she was telling
me may god bless you may god bless you and uh then uh this was um
then she said that uh in february she your father uh could feel his death coming and that's why he
wrote the the bill and what happened was 1999 till 1999 the flat was not transferred to to sajibah
and the executor had not done anything shrimati was very angry with him
and she immediately changed him and made harijjala he must be knowing so he was a leader of bombay
at that time as the executor of the week and she wrote it on a paper and signed i have still got
that letter with me so and then it was done and later on i could meet her and shrimati said
uh she was very you know and sort of grateful because till 17 to 99 we uh we did not have any
place for sajibah official which we can say it is ours in bombay and then this flat was uh put
in sajibah since 1999 till about even recently because everything was it was official office
what shrimati wanted and everybody it was their place and even recently they wanted to
to sell this place to buy another one they lead in bombay people opposed and uh
finally they did not sell this place but they bought another one
and this place is still there it's called urmila yeah so these are some of the
some of the uh experiences which i had with shrimati i'm sorry did uh i must miss when you
said shimashi talked about your father taking a birth again yeah yeah that's why i forgot she
said that your father will um she said uh when i called her it was on monday and when i called her
and when i called her um yeah she might have is uh afterwards she took his atma in her hand
and he said physically i'm tired now let me go i will come back i'll come back and she said he
will come between you this between the surgeries yeah thank you thank you it was sorry i was a bit
moved because uh shrimati literally got brought brought me up because my mother passed away i was
27 and later on even before 2011 and after 2011 she every single moment she was there
every single moment every time
i don't have the words to thank you it's been an absolutely amazing thank you yeah i couldn't
feel the vibrations in my hand completely yeah so i've kept the time it's fine it's fine
and so uh just to i'm going to stop the recording now thank you very very much again you're welcome